= Frequently Asked Questions about www.openaddresses.org =

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

== How can I ask questions ? ==

All the discussions around openaddresses are hold in the discussion group: http://groups.google.com/group/OpenAddresses. You can join this group here: http://groups.google.com/group/openaddresses/subscribe (a google account is required)
 
== What is the history of www.openaddresses.org ==

A university project initiated in Switzerland and Austria www.openaddresses.ch and www.openaddresses.at. With the growing interest for free and open addresses, it became obvious to create a worldwide community around addresses. This was done beginning of 2010. Hans-Jörg Stark was at the origin of these projects.

== What is the origin the of data ? ==

Addresses have been digitized or have been donated by person, group or entity. 

== What is the license of the data ? == 

For the data, the license is: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/. The following conditions are associated to this license:
 * The addresses must be associated to the url of http://www.openaddresses.org
 * The person or entity that submitted the data is stored in a field created_by

== What is the license of the code ? ==

For the code, the license is: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html

== What are the terms of service of the coding and reverse geocoding services ? ==

The services provided by www.openaddresses.org are free to use.
Nevertheless, no warranties are provided about the services
== How can I contribute to www.openaddresses.org ? ==

By creating addresses, of course ! But also by informing your friends of this community, by providing address list, by providing background data like orthophotos, wms, maps.
 
Developers or system administrators are also very welcome. We have very interesting challenges in term of load balancing, distributed environment, cloud computing, database optimization, spatial ETL etc...

If you want to be a member of http://code.google.com/p/openaddresses, sends an email to cedric.moullet at gmail.com

== Who develops www.openaddresses.org ? ==
Some persons believing that this project has a great future (for a more precise answer, have a look at the changes: http://code.google.com/p/openaddresses/source/list

== What can I do if I discover an issue in www.openaddresses.org ? ==

Piece of cake: create an issue here: http://code.google.com/p/openaddresses/issues/list

It is *very important* to describe the workflow to reproduce the problem, to inform about your browser and operating system. we'll take care of the solving ;-)

== I have that the feeling that there is a white transparent layer over the background data. Why ? ==

This is due to some external WMS that don't support transparency. You are probabaly in an area covered by the WMS but that has no data. You can simply set the opacity to 0 (the slider on top right). 