= Quality Assurance =
== General comment on Quality Assurance ==
Quality assurance (QA) is still one of the key issues in the field of volunteered geographic information (vgi). There are many aspects to quality measurements. OpenAddresses focuses in this context on 
 * Spatial accuracy and
 * Attribute accuracy

While spatial accuracy is computed as the deviation from the user entered location to the location provided by one of the three open web-map services (owms) Bing Maps, Google Maps and Yahoo Maps, attribute accuracy is defined as a binary comparison of the user entered address parameters to the address parameters provided by each owms. In this comparison upper and lower case are relevant, also special characters like '-' or ',' etc.

== Quality Assurance report ==
The OpenaAddresses project will shortly provide a report that shows these comparison results in a tabular format. As mentioned above, the comparison provides mostly binary results: is the user entered spelling of street-name identical to the one provided by the owms? The deviation is provided in metric units as [m].

Call  http://www.openaddresses.org/qa/qareport for a short introduction to the QA report.

By default the comparison results are presented in a table, sorted descending by date.

=== Key Values ===
The report can be customised by certain key values:

 * {{{limit}}}: Reduce the number of addresses in the QA report to a certain amount.

 * {{{user}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses provided by a sepcific user.

 * {{{date}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses digitised on a specific day. The format must be YYYYMMDD

 * {{{datesince}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses digitised on a specific day. The format must be YYYYMMDD

 * {{{datesince}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses digitised on a specific day. The format must be YYYYMMDD

 * {{{orderby}}}: Customise the report in the way the records are ordered. The value must be a valid column name of the OpenAddresses table (e.g. created_by (=user), city, postal etc.).

 * {{{street}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses of a specific street.

 * {{{zip}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses of a specific zip/postal code.

 * {{{city}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses of a specific city.

 * {{{country}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses of a specific country.

 * {{{bdistsh}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses with a deviation to the Bing Map location smaller than a specific value (in [m])

 * {{{bdistgr}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses with a deviation to the Bing Map location greater than a specific value (in [m]).

 * {{{gdistsh}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses with a deviation to the Google Map location smaller than a specific value (in [m])

 * {{{gdistgr}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses with a deviation to the Google Map location greater than a specific value (in [m]).

 * {{{ydistsh}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses with a deviation to the Yahoo Map location smaller than a specific value (in [m])

 * {{{ydistgr}}}: Filter the QA report to show only addresses with a deviation to the Yahoo Map location greater than a specific value (in [m]).


=== Sample Reports ===
You may use the introduced key-values to customise the QA report. In the following are some examples given:


The last 20 addresses from user Pete:  
http://www.openaddresses.org/qa/qareport?limit=20&user=pete


All addresses from December 7 2010:
http://www.openaddresses.org/qa/qareport?date=20101207


All addresses since December 1 2010:
http://www.openaddresses.org/qa/qareport?datesince=20101201


All addresses with a deviation to Bing Maps greater than 50m of city Muttenz, ordered descending by deviation:
http://www.openaddresses.org/qa/qareport?bdistgr=50&city=Muttenz&orderby=bing_dist desc


All addresses with a deviation to Google Maps smaller than 20m of zip 4132, ordered ascending by user:
http://www.openaddresses.org/qa/qareport?gdistsh=20&zip=4132&orderby=created_by asc


=== Quality Manager ===

People who are interested in acting as regional quality managers may apply at OpenAddresses to do this. The idea of this concept is that people commit themselves to check addresses in a certain area or region they are familiar with. This could be districts of smaller or larger extent.
Interested persons must provide the region(s) as geometry object they want to be responsible for along with some identity and contact information.

To filter the QA report for addresses that are only within their region(s) they may use an additional key-value: {{{qmname}}}.

A sample of the QA report may look like: 
http://www.openaddresses.org/qa/qareport?qmname=tom69

The key-values introduced earlier may be combined with this one.