= English User Guide =

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

== What ? Another mapping community ? ==

Yes, !OpenStreetMap showed the path to follow ;-). But, we believe that postal addresses needs a dedicated community. Like !GeoNames who targets to store all the locations of the world, !OpenAddresses targets to store all postal addresses of the world (yes, we are ambitious !) and provides services around postal addresses like !GeoCoding and !ReverseGeocoding. 
For that, we implemented an easy to use (or at least that's what we believe) web application  for the viewing and the creation of postal addresses. 

But a community is nothing without .... YOU ! Take the time to create some addresses, to submit open addresses or to provide fantastic orthophotos, maps or background data. 

== How to use !OpenAddresses.org ==

=== I'd like to create a new postal address ! ===

Fine, click in the map. A popup will appear with several attributes. Fill them and click on "Create". That's it, your first address is created. Thank you !

The attributes are the following:
- Username: the person or entity who created the address. We use it ONLY for statistic purpose. This information can be viewed by all. You can use a pseudo,a group name or whatever you consider as pertinent.
- The street name. Try to use the name used by the person living in this area.
- The house number, if one exists
- The postal code of the city
- The city
- The country of the city
- The quality. If you use the web interface, this will be "Digitized". 
- The house name if one exists
- The region. This can be a department, a state, a canton.

=== I'd like to add a search address service in my website ===

!OpenAddresses offer REST services for this purpose. 
Theses services are documented here: http://code.google.com/p/openaddresses/wiki/RESTService

These services are free to use. But we don't garanty any quality of service. 

=== And how can I know the address at this position ? ===

Reverse Geocoding is also part of !OpenAddresses. Doc is here: http://code.google.com/p/openaddresses/wiki/RESTService#MapFish_Reverse_GeoCoding_Service